# openshift-prometheus-proxy

openshift-prometheus-proxy is a filtering proxy for Prometheus on OpenShift. It
is designed for use on shared OpenShift clusters to give customers access to kube-state-metrics and
kubelet metrics of their projects only.

openshift-prometheus-proxy acts a proxy for the federation endpoint of an Prometheus installation,
usually the Prometheus installation that comes with the OpenShift Container Platform. 
It requires authentication with a valid OpenShift bearer token. This
token also determines which metrics will be filtered by the proxy. Only metrics with a
`namespace` label whose value is a namespace the given bearer token has access to will be returned.
That is users can only access metrics concerning their namespaces.

## Requirements

* OpenShift Container Platform 3.11 or later
* OpenShift OAuth Proxy

OpenShift OAuth Proxy is used to restrict access to openshift-prometheus-proxy to select OpenShift users.

## Installation

Installation of openshift-prometheus-proxy is based on OpenShift templates and parameter files.
Clone the repository and copy the openshift-prometheus-proxy example parameter file:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/appuio/openshift-prometheus-proxy
cd openshift-prometheus-proxy
cp env/openshift-prometheus-proxy.env.sample env/openshift-prometheus-proxy.env
```

Adapt `env/openshift-promtheus-proxy.env` to your setup:

* NAMESPACE: OpenShift Namespace to deploy openshift-prometheus-proxy to.
* OPENSHIFT_PROMETHEUS_PROXY_HOSTNAME: External hostname of openshift-prometheus-proxy.

### openshift-prometheus-proxy

openshift-prometheus-proxy can be installed with the following commands:

```sh
. env/openshift-prometheus-proxy.env
oc new-project ${NAMESPACE}
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user -n ${NAMESPACE} --rolebinding-name=system:auth-delegator system:auth-delegator -z openshift-prometheus-proxy
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-user -n ${NAMESPACE} --rolebinding-name=cluster-monitoring-view cluster-monitoring-view -z openshift-prometheus-proxy
oc process -f template/openshift-prometheus-proxy.yaml --param-file=env/openshift-prometheus-proxy.env --ignore-unknown-parameters | oc apply -n ${NAMESPACE} -f -
```

The `system:auto-delegator` cluster role is needed by the OpenShift OAuth Proxy for bearer token authentication and the
`cluster-monitoring-view` role is needed for read access to the OpenShift Prometheus instance.

By default customers aren't allowed to use openshift-prometheus-proxy. To give customers access the `access-openshift-prometheus-proxy`
role needs to be added to their Prometheus service account, e.g.:

```sh
. env/openshift-prometheus-proxy.env
PROMETHEUS_SA=<customer prometheus service account, e.g. system:serviceaccount:customer-prometheus:prometheus-apps>
oc policy add-role-to-user -n ${NAMESPACE} --role-namespace=${NAMESPACE} access-openshift-prometheus-proxy ${PROMETHEUS_SA} 
```

## Usage

openshift-prometheus-proxy supports URLs of the form `https://<openshift-prometheus-proxy hostname>/<job>`,
where `<job>` is name of the Prometheus job to retrieve. `<job>` can also be empty in order to retrieve
metrics without a job label, i.e. metrics generated by recording rules.

This repository contains a template with an example ServiceMonitor to scrape kubelet and kube-state-metrics
through openshift-prometheus-proxy. The template can be instantiated in the customers namespaces as follows.

Copy the sample parameter file for the templates:

```sh
cp env/monitor-openshift.env.sample env/monitor-openshift.env
```

Adapt `env/monitor-openshift.env` to your setup:

* NAMESPACE: Namespace of customer Prometheus instance.
* PROMETHEUS_ID: Value of the `prometheus` label of the ServiceMonitor. Must correspond to the `serviceMonitorSelector` in the customers `Prometheus` object. Defaults to 'app'.
* OPENSHIFT_PROMETHEUS_PROXY_SCRAPE_ENDPOINT: Endpoint of the OpenShift Prometheus Proxy to scrape, either the service or the route of the proxy.
* OPENSHIFT_PROMETHEUS_PROXY_SCRAPE_SKIP_TLS_VERIFY: Whether to skip TLS certificate verification when scraping OpenShift Prometheus Proxy. Not recommended on production. Defaults to 'false'.

Instantiate the openshift-prometheus-proxy scrape config template in the customer Prometheus namespace:

```sh
. env/monitor-openshift.env
oc process -f template/monitor-openshift-prometheus-proxy.yaml --param-file=env/monitor-openshift.env --ignore-unknown-parameters | oc apply -n ${NAMESPACE} -f -
```
